#ident	"@(#)ihvkit:pdi/ihvhba/ihvhba.bldscript/README	1.3"


This README provides a detailed description of the process involved in
building the IHV Host Bus Adapter (HBA) floppy.  A brief overview of the
role of the IHV HBA floppy during UnixWare installation is provided along
with a detailed description of the contents of the floppy.  A background
knowledge of the following is assumed:

1) Driver Software Packages.
2) Loadable Modules.
3) UnixWare packaging and installation mechanisms.


IHV-HBA and UnixWare Installation
---------------------------------

The IHV HBA floppy contains a set of standard files and driver software
packages (DSPs) for all vendor provided HBA drivers. The IHV HBA floppy
is used during two distinct phases of the installation process: The first 
phase of installation process demand-loads all the pre-configured loadable 
images of HBA drivers that are present on the HBA floppy.  The loadable
modules are necessary for installing the operating system on hard disk
devices connected to the Host Bus Adapter.  The second phase optionally
installs the DSPs for HBA drivers that were successfully loaded in the
first phase.


Mandatory Files and Scripts
---------------------------

The shell script "bldscript" generates the HBA floppy based on a number of
important files and scripts that are present in the working directory. 
Furthermore, "bldscript" also copies the files and scripts to appropriate 
directories on the IHV HBA floppy. The list of files are:

HBAINST:  A shell script that selectively installs the Driver package
software for all the HBA drivers that are were successfully loaded during
the installation phase.

pkglist:  An ASCII file that contains a list of all the HBA packages contained
on any given HBA floppy.

load.name:  A file that contains an ASCII string uniquely identifying the
HBA floppy.

loadmods:  A pre-formatted file required by UnixWare's demand load mechanism.


Standard Driver Software Package
--------------------------------

To use the "bldscript", you are expected to provide a standard set of
driver and packaging related files and scripts.  All the files should be
present in a pre-determined format under a directory that uniquely
identifies the driver package.  Please use the example provided along with
the README file for a detailed understanding of the expected format.  The
list of files provided with the example and their usage is as follows:

copyright:   Contains copyright information
pkginfo:     Standard packaging information
postinstall: Script to install the driver package
preremove:   Script to remove the driver package
prototype:   Identifies the different components of the package

The Driver Software components including the Master, System, Space.c,
Driver.o, Drvmap, disk.cfg along with the header files and loadable module 
image should be present under the "tmp" directory under a sub-directory 
that uniquely identifies the driver.


Notes
-----

1) The load.name file should be unique across IHV HBA floppies and this
should be done by uniquely initializing the variable "LOADNAME" (in
"bldscript" before each HBA floppy is created.

2) Ensure that ksh (/usr/bin/ksh) is installed before running this script.  
ksh is part of the advanced commands package.  This can be verified by
executing pkginfo:
  
	pkginfo -l cmds

3) Ensure that the packaging tools are installed as well. This can be 
verified by executing pkginfo: 

	pkginfo -l softint 

4) The Drvmap file is needed and should be made available only on
UnixWare 2.x.  The packaging scripts should be modified to exclude this on
UnixWare 1.1 systems.

Example
-------
The example provided in this directory is a DSP for a UnixWare 2.0 Sony
CD-ROM driver.  To get better acquainted with this process, run the bldscript
in the current directory and generate the IHV-HBA floppy.  However, because
of differences in the idtools and Driver.o files of UnixWare 1.1 and 2.x, the
IHV HBA floppy produced cannot be used to install the driver on a UnixWare 1.1
system.
