.ident	"@(#)netparams	11.1"
.related kbhelp genhelp
.title Help: Network Parameters
ABOUT THE NETWORKING PARAMETERS
During a TCP/IP network installation, you are prompted
for some or all of the following parameters.  For the
netmask and IP addresses, default values may be provided;
however, you are given the opportunity to change the defaults.
Contact your network administrator for the values to use.

SYSTEM NODE NAME
The system node name is the name of your computer.
Typically, alphanumeric characters are used; however,
the following special characters are also allowed:
     .    @    $     _     -
CAUTION:   Using these characters incorrectly may create
           routing problems.  Contact an experienced Email
           administrator before selecting these characters.
                                   (CONTINUED)
.page
SYSTEM NODE NAME (CONTINUED)
The system node name must be between three and thirty-five
characters long.

If your computer already has a name you should re-use the
existing name.  If your computer does not have a name,
contact your network or system administrator to help you
select a name that is unique on the network.

NETWORKING HARDWARE
You are prompted to identify your networking hardware
board from a displayed list of supported hardware
boards.  Your system must have one of the listed
cards in order to perform a TCP/IP network installation.
                                   (CONTINUED)
.page
INTERRUPT VECTOR
An interrupt vector is a signal to stop execution of
a process.  Distinct hardware components must have
unique interrupts.

RAM ADDRESS RANGE
A RAM address range is a portion of shared memory reserved
for communication between the computer operating system and
a hardware peripheral.  Distinct hardware components must
have unique RAM address ranges.
                                   (CONTINUED)
.page
I/O ADDRESS RANGE
An I/O address range is a portion of memory reserved
for communication between the computer operating system
and a hardware peripheral.  Distinct hardware components
must have unique I/O address ranges.

CABLE TYPE
There are two choices for cable type:
 -- BNC   A thin cable with a round, twist-on
          connector or a telephone-like connection.
 -- AUI   A thick cable with a flat, D-shaped
          connection.
                                   (CONTINUED)
.page
DMA CHANNEL
A DMA channel is a location in your system for devices
that perform I/O operations without involving the
processor.

EISA SLOT NUMBER
An EISA slot number is a location in your system for
an expansion board.
                                   (CONTINUED)
.page
SYSTEM IP ADDRESS
An IP address is four integers between 1 and 255
separated by periods (for example, 147.200.2.21).

Each system on a network must have an IP address.
Contact your network and/or system administrator and
have them assign an IP address for your system.

NETMASK
A netmask is a ten character code that indicates
which portions of an Internet Protocol (IP) address
are supplied by the network and which portion by
the system.  Contact your network and/or system
administrator and have them assign a netmask for
your system.
                                   (CONTINUED)
.page
ROUTER IP ADDRESS
The Router IP address is the IP address for your
router, the machine that allows your system to
communicate with systems on other networks.

SERVER IP ADDRESS
The Server IP address is the IP address of the
Install Server from which you are installing
UnixWare.

EXITING HELP
Press <Esc> to return to the previous menu.
Press <F1> for more help.
