Strategy
--------

The automatic dlpi executions depends on the package TCP/IP.
This is required because of the use of the Internet commands
like rsh and rcp. The scheme works as follows:

1. The script to be executed is "auto_dlpi" . It should be in the
   directory $TETROOT/dlpi. It will start all the listeners
   on all the nodes and also run the tests on the local machine
   in the following order.
2. The program get_params( residing in $TETROOT/dlpi ) will
   get from the tetexec.cfg file of the local machine, the 
   following paramaters :
	$TETROOT
	uwcert user name
	No of nodes to test
	Node names of the machines to test
   and this will be stored in a temporary file.
3. The script will then generate a .rhosts file to be put
   in all the machines which are being tested.
4. Check if `uname -n` is same as NODE0.
5. Check if all the nodes specified for the test reside in the
   /etc/hosts file of the local machine. Also check if there
   is any clash of the node names.
6. Check if we can do an rcp of the rhosts file to all the
   remote machines. If we can , then our machine entry exists
   in the remote machines' /etc/hosts.equiv or .rhosts file, so
   we can proceed. If we cannot, then prompt the user to add the
   extry and then continue.
7. Some basic error checking is done by doing a "pwd" on the
   remote machine. Then the presence of a dlpi directory is checked
   on the remote machine. The script exits with failures if any of
   the checks fail.
8. The "tetexec.cfg" file and the "dlpi_profile" file is then copied to 
   all the remote machines. ( The dlpi_profile file is a cut down
   version of the .profile file )
9. The lock file is then removed in the local as well as the remote 
   machines.
10.The script then fires a remote shell with listen for dlpi on all
   the remote machines.
11.The local test is then started.
12.After the local test completes, the remote listeners are then
   killed.


How to compile
--------------

In this directory execute the command

		make all

There are only two executables made ( gethost and get_params )

How to Package
--------------

Do the packaging from the parent directory. ( TET_ROOT/nd/dlpi )
