#ident	"@(#)Help	1.2"
#ident  "$Header$"
ABSTRACT:
	The local_resources menu allows you to control the
	availability of local resources to remote systems.  You can
	specify which local resources are to be available currently
	via a particular distributed file system.  Your can also
	specify which local resources are to be made available
	automatically when a distributed file system begins
	operation.

local:list:List Automatically-Currently Shared Local Resources
	The list menu allows you to list the resources on your local
	system that are currently available to remote systems or that
	are automatically made available to remote systems when
	distributed file system operation begins.

local:modify:Modify Automatic-Current Sharing of Local Resources
	The modify menu allows you to change the options with which
	local resources are currently shared with remote systems or
	automatically shared with remote systems when distributed
	file system operation begins.
	
local:share:Share Local Resources Automatically-Immediately
	The share menu allows you to make available to remote systems
	selected resources on your local system.  You may set up
	automatic sharing (for sharing local resources with remote
	systems when distributed file system operation begins).  Your
	may also share local resources immediately.
	
local:unshare:Stop Automatic-Current Sharing of Local Resources
	The unshare menu allows you to terminate current sharing of
	local resources with remote systems and to prevent automatic
	sharing of local resources when distributed file system
	operation begins.

type:rfs:Remote File Sharing
	This is the distributed file system type which is referred to
	as Remote File Sharing.  For more information on this file
	system, please refer to your System Administrator's Guide.

type:nfs:Network File System
	This is the distributed file system type which is referred to
	as Network File System.  For more information on this file
	system, please refer to your System Administrator's Guide.
