%% STREAMS Parameters
%C STREAMS Parameters
These tunable parameters are associated with STREAMS processing.
% CONSOLE_SECURITY
Bit mask value that determines the hot key sequences
allowed on the console keyboard.
Each bit corresponds to a hot key sequence.
A value of 0 indicates that all sequences are disallowed.
Bit 0 corresponds to the reboot key sequence.
Bit 1 corresponds to the panic key sequence.
The default value is 1.
% FDRDTRK
Enable (1) or disable (0) track buffer reads.
% MAXMAJOR
Maximum valid major device number.
This parameter limits the maximum major number
that a device node created by the
mknod(2)
system call can have.
Although the system now allows
major numbers up to 0x1FFF, this parameter
can be set to a smaller value
for compatibility reasons.
% MAXMINOR
Maximum valid minor device number.
This parameter limits the maximum minor number
that a device node created by the
mknod(2)
system call can have.
Although the system now allows
minor numbers up to 0x3FFFF, this parameter
can be set to a smaller value
for compatibility reasons.
% NLOG
The number of
STREAMS
loggers.
The number of minor devices that are available through
the clone interface of the log driver (/dev/log).
If an open of
/dev/log
fails with
errno
set to
ENXIO ,
this number might need to be increased.
% NSTRPUSH
The maximum number of modules
that may be pushed onto a Stream.
This is used to prevent an errant user process
from consuming all the available queues
on a single Stream.
By default this value is 9, but in practice,
existing applications have pushed, at most,
four modules on a Stream.
% STRCTLSZ
The maximum allowable size of the control portion of any STREAMS message.
The control portion of a putmsg(2) message is not subject
to the constraints of the minimum or maximum packet size,
so entering a value
here is the only way of providing a limit for the control part of a
message.
The recommended value of 1024 is more than sufficient for existing
applications.
% STRMSGSZ
The maximum allowable size of the data
portion of any STREAMS message.
This should be set large enough
to accommodate the maximum packet
size restrictions of all configured STREAMS modules.
A value of zero indicates no upper bound.
% STRTHRESH
The maximum number of bytes STREAMS are allowed to allocate.
When the threshold is passed, users without appropriate privilege
are not allowed to open streams, push streams modules, nor
execute writes to streams devices.
These operations will fail with ENOSR, out
of streams resources.
Note that the
threshold applies to the output side only and data
coming into the system (for example, console) is not affected and
will continue to work properly.
The default value is zero and to indicate that there is no threshold.
This value can be reset by the administrator with appropriate
privilege if a naive or malicious user runs the machine out of memory.
Then, the setting should be based on the memory size of the machine.
% STRNSCHED
Maximum number of service procedures
to run in any given runqueues invocation.
%% Miscellaneous Parameters
% FD_DOOR_SENSE
Specifies whether the floppy disk driver uses the Disk Change Signal.
The Disk Change Signal indicates whether the door of the floppy disk 
drive has been opened.
For systems that do not provide this signal,
the floppy disk driver will not function properly
unless this parameter is set to 0.
That is, when the parameter is set to 0 or false,
the driver does not use the signal and
this allows the driver to work on non-standard systems that 
do not provide the signal.
The default setting is 1 or true to preserve
the designed system behavior.
