@(#)README	11.1

This is the root of the stuff for mail in the gemini tree.
This tree was built from scratch with various technologies
imported.

Each and where they came from are in a
README file at the top level of the component directory.

This file also describes SID conventions for which is what
as we use sid levels to differentiate different versions
of a component.

The tree is laid out with component names at the top level.

The test and doc components are not components but are where
where test suites (in subdirs named after their components)
and project documentation are kept.  Global project doc just
sits at the top level in the doc directory.

The ORG directory contains the original versions of the source
before porting efforts.  Things came from the net,
UnixWare, or Open Server V.  Most of these are compressed
tar files deltaed in with the -b flag.

MS-Word documents are also created using the -b (binary) flag
to admin.

SID conventions:

1 - our first Gemini target sid.

Additional SID conventions may be defined by the components
such as a new source drop from the technology provider.
Any SID not defined here is available for use.

Components.				Original source location.

imap	- IMAP 4 server.		ftp.cac.washington.edu
mailx	- mailx component.
metamail - toolkit used by mailx.	ftp.bellcore.com
popper	- pop server.			ftp.qualcomm.com

sendmail - sendmail MTA.		ftp.cs.berkeley.edu
sendcfg	- sendmail graphical config.

mh - RAND mh system, has slocal		ftp.ics.uci.edu/pub/mh/mh-6_8_tar.Z

inn	- NNTP news server.		ftp.uu.net:/networking/news/nntp/inn
inncfg	- inn gui config.

pine (unix)?				ftp.cac.washington.uu
elm					ftp.myxa.com (pointer on uu.net).

Not all the above items are in the final product.

Additional components were developed here:

admin - mail system administrator programs.
user - mail user preferences edittors and folder recovery/conversion tools.
mhome - mail multihome administration and support utilities.
vacation - our own rcvtrip look-alike.
tests - a vast array of unit-tests and some systems tests.
libdb - the version of the berkeley database library we use for mail.
	This library is not shipped by itself but most of it is in
	libmultihome.so, so it is kind of an undocumented API.

Additional items exist for binary compatibility:

execmail - simulates the OSR5 execmail.

Sendmail work for LDAP server connection to aliases.
	Eric did this for us, ldap maps are supported.

FAX server? Faximum (www.faximum.com)?
	Faximum made it, but is not in this part of the source tree.
