%% Timer and Scheduler Parameters
% TS_AFFINITY_ON
The  setting indicates
whether a lightweight process (LWP) of this scheduler class
should be scheduled on the same processor that it ran on last,
when the cache is still warm.
A setting of 1 indicates that the LWP should be run on
the same processor when the cache is still warm.
See the 
Processor Cache Affinity Parameters descriptions
for how it is determined whether the cache is warm.
% TS_SLEEPMAX
When a time sharing LWP is given a new priority and time
quantum, as a result of exceeding
TS_SLEEPWAIT
accumulated sleep time,
its accumulated sleep time is reduced to a value
that is no greater than half of
TS_SLEEPMAX.
Alter this tunable parameter with caution since it
will change the time-slicing behavior of the time sharing
scheduler.
% TS_SLEEPWAIT
A time sharing LWP that has accumulated a total of
TS_SLEEPWAIT
clock ticks of sleep time
is given a new time quantum and a new
(typically higher) priority.
Alter this tunable parameter with caution since it
will change the time-slicing behavior of the time sharing
scheduler.
% TSMAXUPRI
Defines the range for time sharing scheduler priorities.
The range within which users may adjust
the user priority of a time sharing process,
using the priocntl(2) system call, is
-TSMAXUPRI
to
+TSMAXUPRI.
Configuring higher values gives users
more control over the priority of their processes.
Remember that only a process with appropriate privilege
can raise priority.
The default value of 20
provides a degree of control equivalent to
what has been available in the past through the
nice(2)
and setpriority
interfaces.

The value of TSMAXUPRI is independent of the configured number of
global time-sharing priorities,
though we recommend configuring at least 40 time-sharing priorities,
as explained in the section on
``Time-Sharing Parameter Table ts_tbl'' in the ``Process Scheduling''
chapter.
In the default configuration, there are 60 time-sharing priorities.
The system may use the remaining priorities depending on process behavior.
